Dear Editor,

Please find our manuscript entitled "DTI-Voodoo: machine learning over
interaction networks and ontology-based background knowledge predicts
drug--target interactions" for your consideration.

DTI-Voodoo is a novel method for drug--target interaction (DTI)
prediction utilizing both ontology-based information about phenotypic
effects of drugs (side effects), and molecular features that encode
for interactions between drugs and proteins. We compare DTI-Voodoo to
seven state of the art DTI prediction methods on two datasets, and
significantly improve over all of them in our evaluation.

More importantly, we explore several novel aspects of DTI prediction
tasks. First, we identify, analyze, and correct for inherent biases in
drug--target interaction prediction datasets; we propose a "naive"
classifier which does not make predictions based on any biological
information and predicts the same ranked list of drugs or each
protein, and which achieves performance similar to state of the art
methods.

Second, DTI-Voodoo combines indirect information such as side effects
and molecular properties of both drugs and proteins in a novel way
using an interaction network. Using this network, we demonstrate that
only side effect information "localizes" on the interaction network
(i.e., side effects are enriched on modules of interacting proteins),
whereas molecular features do not benefit from graph-based
information.

We believe that our results, as well as the novel methods we
introduced in developing DTI-Voodoo, makes our manuscript very
suitable for the readers of Bioinformatics.

Please do not hesitate to contact us should you require any further
information.

With best wishes,
Tilman Hinnerichs and Robert Hoehndorf.
