ideas/ideas.md, before:

## TODO

- actually do some literature search!!!

- Put more comments to code

- run FAMSA on Ibex

- Run Alignment on min_score 700 to avoid that many 0 target drugs
- execute hmm_pipeline on MSA results

- how to map e values from [0,inf) with 0 as hit and inf as no hit to [0,1] where 0 no hit and 1 is hit
- how to compare both similarity measures? (-> Maxat)


- Handle CIDm and CIDs as different entities?

- get distibution over similarities and then take lowest, median and highest and fit above mapping to it

- iSCB conference deadline is 30. January



--------------------------------------------------------------------
- move repo to project folder (reach out to Ramy)

- Build alignment over all targets
  - Query against only human target data
  - Build STRING graph only on human data (Y)
  - Use human interactions data to build training/testing data
    - Utilize non-binary score? Sigmoid over score?

- build human dti data for train/test
- extract intersection between SIDER data and DDI data
  - build proper DDI graph

- extract subgraphs for each target for specific radius
- get node2vec embedding with node features
(- use node2vec and add my embedding on top of that) -> destroys idea of approach

- Test whether CIDs\* targets are subsets of CIDm\* targets (NOT TRUE!)

- if merge targets necessary:
  - remove all old relation files
  - remove all fasta files
  - recalculate both
  
  - recalculate SIDER graph
  - recalculate MedDRA Enriched sider graph
  - recalculate semantic similarities
  - recalculate similarity matrix according to drug list
  

## Ideas for presentation
- histogram over scores of STRING and STITCH
- Meaning of score 
- Functions to slides B)


## Other ideas

- Calculate similarity between drugs and metabolites...
	... over structural similarity
	... over alignment of e.g. SMILES

- get DD similarity trough ATC code/hierarchy?

## On performance of alignments

This [link](https://www.ebi.ac.uk/Tools/msa/)

## Other sources for MSAs

- [wiki article on MSAs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_sequence_alignment_software#Multiple_sequence_alignment)

## Questions

- What is the actual hypothesis? (Can drug-target interaction in other organisms can be used to determine DTIs in humans?) -> What is difference to GO, where all species are available as well
- My Fahrplan:
  - Proof similarity between semsim/jaccard similarity and found targets (most likely jaccard)
    - How to get correlation between two simlarities?
    - I only need alignments for drugs present in SIDER?
  - Remove orthologs -> query for humans (Orthologs are only the ones with same name?)
- Actually do some statistics on the removed orthologs
- What could be some meat to add here?
- What could be some backup plan here?

## Databases

- CTD

Tray Eidecke

Commit message:

Running job pipeline on SIDER drugs 1

ideas/ideas.md, after:

## TODO

- actually do some literature search!!!

- Put more comments to code

- run FAMSA on Ibex

- Run Alignment on min_score 700 to avoid that many 0 target drugs
- execute hmm_pipeline on MSA results

- how to map e values from [0,inf) with 0 as hit and inf as no hit to [0,1] where 0 no hit and 1 is hit
- how to compare both similarity measures? (-> Maxat)


- get distibution over similarities and then take lowest, median and highest and fit above mapping to it

- iSCB conference deadline is 30. January



--------------------------------------------------------------------
- move repo to project folder (reach out to Ramy)

- Build alignment over all targets
  - Query against only human target data
  - Build STRING graph only on human data (Y)
  - Use human interactions data to build training/testing data
    - Utilize non-binary score? Sigmoid over score?

- build human dti data for train/test
- extract intersection between SIDER data and DDI data
  - build proper DDI graph

- extract subgraphs for each target for specific radius
- get node2vec embedding with node features
(- use node2vec and add my embedding on top of that) -> destroys idea of approach

- check if intersection targets are empty or not

- wait for data preprocessing to finish
- zip fasta files and scp them over
- execute run\_pipeline after checking both run\_pipeline and alignment\_pipeline to
be properly configured
  - Run it for both Mafft and FAMSA
  - Finally execute hmm\_pipeline !!! 


## Ideas for presentation
- histogram over scores of STRING and STITCH
- Meaning of score 
- Functions to slides B)


## Other ideas

- Calculate similarity between drugs and metabolites...
	... over structural similarity
	... over alignment of e.g. SMILES

- get DD similarity trough ATC code/hierarchy?

## On performance of alignments

This [link](https://www.ebi.ac.uk/Tools/msa/)

## Other sources for MSAs

- [wiki article on MSAs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_sequence_alignment_software#Multiple_sequence_alignment)

## Questions

- What is the actual hypothesis? (Can drug-target interaction in other organisms can be used to determine DTIs in humans?) -> What is difference to GO, where all species are available as well
- My Fahrplan:
  - Proof similarity between semsim/jaccard similarity and found targets (most likely jaccard)
    - How to get correlation between two simlarities?
    - I only need alignments for drugs present in SIDER?
  - Remove orthologs -> query for humans (Orthologs are only the ones with same name?)
- Actually do some statistics on the removed orthologs
- What could be some meat to add here?
- What could be some backup plan here?

## Databases

- CTD

Tray Eidecke
